[Music]
eight simple ways to get rid of rust in
five minutes
rust can make a lovely car look drab it
will turn shiny hands tools and everyday
household items that have been exposed
to the elements into unsightly objects
if you find that your favorite tool is
rusted here are some incredibly easy
ways to return it to its former glory
follow these tips and watch your items
shine like new as always don't forget to
click the subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side of life
[Music]
number eight scrub away you'll really
need to put your strength into this
method rust can be scrubbed but it's not
always a good idea if the rusted item is
a car or something you don't want to
risk scratching it's best to avoid this
method
[Music]
but if the item is something that
doesn't need to look perfect like a
shovel and outdoor faucet or chains in
your backyard then scrub to your heart's
content for scrubbing you can use steel
wool sandpaper or a wire brush if you
don't have those items you can crumple
up some tinfoil and use that if the item
has a thick layer of rust you can start
with a hardcore tool like the wire brush
as the rust gets scraped off switch to a
gentler tool like sandpaper or steel
wool so that you don't scratch the item
surface with the proper tools and some
elbow grease your object will be in
tip-top shape before you know it number
7 white vinegar you don't need to try
any exotic methods or purchase expensive
chemicals to get rid of rust a common
ingredient in your kitchen pack such a
high acidic content that it can melt
rust away soak the item in white vinegar
for at least 10 minutes using vinegar is
a great method if you have small items
that can be soaked like earrings screws
knives and hand tools check the item
after 10 minutes depending on the amount
of rust and the delicacy of the item it
could take a few minutes or a full day
for the vinegars acidity to penetrate
the rust when your item comes out it
could be completely rust free or it
might need a little scrub with a soft
brush to finish the cleaning process
for bigger items try soaking a rag in
vinegar and then wrapping it around the
item let it sit for several minutes the
white vinegar method works best for
delicate items that require a gentle
approach
[Music]
number six lemon if you really don't
care for scrubbing or the high acidity
and vinegar and prefer a more natural
approach using lemon juice is the way to
go rub some coarse salt on the rusted
areas of the object once it's fully
coated or some lemon juice on it now let
it soak for no more than two hours if it
soaks for any longer it might damage
your item then scrub the mixture off and
rinse the awesome thing about using
lemon is that it also works to get rid
of rust stains on fabrics clothes car
seats rugs and so on in this case pour a
bit of lemon juice on the stain and
follow that up by sprinkling cream of
tartar in powder form the citrus content
won't just get rid of the stain it'll
also make your fabrics smell great as
the lemon does its job make yourself
eliminate with the lemon juice to pamper
yourself for your hard work
[Music]
number five tamarind water if you never
tried delicious tamarind juice here's
your chance when you're in need of rust
removal you can buy tamarind peas from
the grocery store put the peas in a pot
filled with water and bring it to a boil
the peas have a high acidic content so
they'll do the trick
[Music]
once the water is cool enough for your
skin dip a piece of cloth into the water
and use it to scrub the rusted areas let
it sit for a couple of hours and then
rinse with a lot of water make sure
there isn't any of the tamarind
substance left as it can corrode metal
if left for too long
[Music]
number four citric acid it might not be
a very common household ingredient but
you can find it easily at most grocery
stores and pharmacies as you've been
learning acid dissolves rust and that's
what citric acid will do giving your old
objects a shiny brand-new look pour warm
water into a large container drop in the
rusted items sprinkle citric acid on top
and stir it in gently with any hands
tool after a few minutes small bubbles
should form if you don't see them add
more citric acid let the items soak for
two to four hours remove the items and
scrub them with a brush until all traces
of rust are gone citric acid can also
remove paint so if your item has paint
it's best to avoid this method
[Music]
number three baking soda baking soda
doesn't just turn your flat dough into
delicious puffy chocolate-chip cookies
it's also an all-around item that's used
in toothpaste can unclog drains and you
guessed it can remove rust baking soda
is a type of salt which is why it's
called sodium bicarbonate it's mildly
abrasive so it's a top-notch product for
cleaning rust or some baking soda into a
bowl and add water until it forms a
thick paste spread it on the area that's
rusted and let it sit for up to two
hours you can scrub it off with a wire
brush steel wool or a toothbrush if you
want to be more gentle rinse the item
with water and dry it with a cloth
[Music]
number two use a potato potatoes are
just incredibly tasty they're also good
rust cleaners it does sound a little
far-fetched but the method works if you
have an old potato that was headed for
the trash try using it to remove rust
before discarding it how does it work
potatoes contain oxalic acid which helps
dissolve rust start by cutting a potato
in half lengthwise or across whichever
way works best for the rusted item pour
a bit of salt baking powder or
dishwashing liquid onto the potato now
scrub the item with it the rust will
react to the mixture and dissolve this
method is especially effective for
kitchen items like knives pots and pants
you can also insert an item like a knife
into the potato and wait for the rust to
come off though effective the one
downside is this method can get quite
messy so it's best to work over a sink
number one coca-cola cleaning up rust
doesn't have to be a chore it can be fun
to channel your inner scientist with
this really fun experiment drop a rusted
penny into a glass of coke and wait to
see what happens when it comes out it'll
shine like a new penny soak other rusted
items in a container full of coke and
let them soak for 24 hours
[Music]
if the item is too big to be soaked pour
the coca-cola directly onto the stains
you can also soak a sponge in Coke and
scrub the rust off with it if the rust
is on a car's bumper or a motorcycle
soaking a piece of crumpled aluminum
foil and coke and scrubbing the bumper
with it can work wonders if you don't
have Coke at home but have other sodas
they might also do the trick
many sodas have a high content of
phosphoric acid and citric acid which
are components that can get rid of rust
using coke might be really fun but be
ready for a very sticky situation you'll
need a good amount of water and soap
afterward to get the stickiness left by
the soda make sure that when you're done
with any of these methods you
immediately dry all the items if they're
left wet they'll rust all over again so
tell us bright ciders which method has
worked for you let us know in the
comments section don't forget to give
this video a like share with your
friends and click subscribe to stay on
the bright side
you